fix(spec/consensus): Small fixes to overview.md file. (#873)
informalsystems/malachite: specs/consensus/overview.md

of consensus, in which the same algorithm is executed again.

For the sake of the operation of the consensus algorithm, heights are

> completely independent executions. NM{Not sure I fully understand what do we want to say here?}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
communication-closed, that is, a message from some height `H` does not influence a process that is in height `H' != H`.
```

  [`precommit`](#precommit) step of round `r` of height `h`.
  The last field can be either the unique identifier `id(v)` of a proposed
  value `v` for which the process has received `⟨PREVOTE, h, r, id(v)⟩`
  messages from a [super-majority](#voting-power) of processes, or the special `nil` value otherwise.

>   NM{I am not sure we have defined super-majority anywhere?} 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think @cason already addressed this

Attacks 2. and 3. are constitute forms of the **amnesia attack** and are harder
to identify.
Notice, however, that correct processes check whether they can accept a proposed
value `v` with a valid round `vr` based on the content of its state variables
`lockedValue_p` and `lockedRound_p` (lines 23 and 29) and are likely to reject
such proposals.

Attack 4. constitutes a double-signing or **equivocation** attack.
A correct process can only consider the first
`⟨PROPOSAL, h, r, v, *⟩` received in the `propose` step, which can be accepted
or rejected.
sounds like they can also act in a different way}
However, it is possible that a different `⟨PROPOSAL, h, r, v', *⟩` with
`v' != v` is accepted by different processes and, as a result, triggers state
transitions in the `prevote` or `precommit` round steps.
So, a priori, the algorithm expects a correct process to store all the
multiple proposals broadcast by a Byzantine proposer.
Which, by itself, constitutes an attack vector to be considered.

> NM{I don't know how this is implemented in the code, but in a round process do need to store 
> all values but if one of the values collects 2f+1 prevotes it can discard others? }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   expected contents of its `lockedValue_q` and `lockedRound_q` variables.

Since Byzantine processes can always produce **equivocation attacks**, a
correct process can deal with them by only considering the first
`⟨PREVOTE, h, r, *⟩` or `⟨PRECOMMIT, h, r, *⟩` messages received from a process
in a round `r` of height `h`.
Different (equivocating) versions of the same message from the same sender
should, from a defensive point of view, be disregarded and dropped by the

> consensus logic as they were duplicated messages. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
consensus logic as they were duplicated messages.
```

   expected contents of its `lockedValue_q` and `lockedRound_q` variables.

Since Byzantine processes can always produce **equivocation attacks**, a
correct process can deal with them by only considering the first
`⟨PREVOTE, h, r, *⟩` or `⟨PRECOMMIT, h, r, *⟩` messages received from a process
in a round `r` of height `h`.
Different (equivocating) versions of the same message from the same sender
should, from a defensive point of view, be disregarded and dropped by the

> consensus logic as they were duplicated messages. NM{Ok I guess this is the change you want to implement or have alrady implemented, that is different from the paper?}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consensus logic as they were duplicated messages (note that doing this maintains safety, but leads to violations of the gossip property from the [Tendermint paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.04938), and thus introduces liveness issues; see below). 
```

> consensus logic as they were duplicated messages. NM{Ok I guess this is the change you want to implement or have alrady implemented, that is different from the paper?}

Reviewer: These two paragraphs are more related to gossip. Let's move them to the end of the "Network" section

for an arbitrary amount of time.
There is, however, a (possibly unknown) Global Stabilization Time (`GST`), a
time from which the system becomes synchronous and `∆` is observed for all

> messages sent by correct processes. \NM{Ok this "possibly unknown" in both sentences is confusing me? Did you try to somehow capture both versions of partially synchronous system models? }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
messages sent by correct processes.
```

for an arbitrary amount of time.
There is, however, a (possibly unknown) Global Stabilization Time (`GST`), a
time from which the system becomes synchronous and `∆` is observed for all

> messages sent by correct processes. \NM{Ok this "possibly unknown" in both sentences is confusing me? Did you try to somehow capture both versions of partially synchronous system models? }

Reviewer: I think it is fine, I would just keep it. Even if both are unknown, the algorithm should work, no? That would be the model in the Chandra/Toueg paper on failure detectors.

in round `vr`, if `p` _had received_ the POL messages while in the `prevote`
round step of round `vr`.
If `p` could have locked `v` in round `vr`, then any correct process could

> have produced a valid lock in round `vr`. \NM{Ok, this explanation is too high level for me but I understand that it is hard to explain at this point that it can accept it because it knows that lockedValue is not decided}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have produced a valid lock in round `vr`. 
```

> But this would require more than one third of the voting power to be owned by
> Byzantine processes, which is a violation of Tendermint's failure model.

> \NM{I think with the current version of this paragraph the text below is not necessary.}

Reviewer 2: I agree. We can remove all the content until line 852.

Those values are rejected by processes locked in round `r`, but they are
accepted by correct processes that have no locks.
With the votes of Byzantine processes, which may misbehave, it is then

> possible to produce another lock in a round `r' > r`. \NM{These processes do not need to be Byzantine.}

Reviewer: Let's fix the sentence to:
It is then possible to produce another lock in a round `r' > r`.

> possible to produce another lock in a round `r' > r`. \NM{These processes do not need to be Byzantine.}

Reviewer 2: This is a liveness discussion. I would rather remove this paragraph as the reason for which we might change locks is explained in the new version of the previous paragraphs.

None of the locked values can be decided, for the lack of votes, but liveness

> is under threat, as detailed in this [discussion][equivocation-discussion]. \NM{Potentially they cannot be decided, so maybe we can rephrase a bit this sentence.  }

Author: This one we can briefly discuss

> is under threat, as detailed in this [discussion][equivocation-discussion]. \NM{Potentially they cannot be decided, so maybe we can rephrase a bit this sentence.  }

Reviewer: @nenadmilosevic95 takes a stab at this paragraph.

3. `step_p = precommit`: in this case, `p` only updates `validValue_p` to `v`
   and `validRound_p` to `r`.

> \NM{I would maybe just talk about two scenarios here, when it locks and when it just updates valid values}

Author: Do you want me to make this change or you want to keep it like this?

> \NM{I would maybe just talk about two scenarios here, when it locks and when it just updates valid values}

Reviewer: Yes. let's make two cases.

> considered scenarios by any correct process in round `r` for a distinct
> proposed value `v' != v`.

Still in scenario 2, although `p` could not lock `v` in round `r`, it realizes
that some correct process may have done so.
To provide liveness, if `p` becomes the proposer of a upcoming round, it should
re-propose `v`, since it has learned that `v` has become a globally valid
value in round `r`.
This is the reason for which pseudo-code lines 15-16 adopt `validValue_p`
instead of `lockedValue_p`.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This is the reason for which pseudo-code lines 15-16 adopt `validValue_p`
instead of `lockedValue_p`.

> \NM{The explanations here are fine for me, but I am not good to review this as I know in detail how this mechanism 
> works. I think we should ask someone who does not understand how valid value and locked value correlate and see
> if he/she got it from this. I think this explanation introduces the difference but do not explain the mechanism. 
> Update: I saw that latter you do explain, so I am happy with the explanations. }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I guess the update says that it is fine as is.

- every process `p` in `C` has set `lockedValue_p` to `v` and `lockedRound_p`
  to `r` ;
- every process `p` in `C` will broadcast a `PREVOTE` for `nil` in rounds
  `r' > r` where a value `v' != v` is proposed. \NM{this might not be clear for all and this is 

>   what we explain below, so maybe we can somehow rephrase" }

Reviewer: let's clarify assumption and consequences here (first two bullets should be in an "if", and the third should be the consequence.

    - The content of the variables `lockedValue_p` and `validValue_p` change in
      a rather complicated manner at different processes in arbitrary
      asynchronous prefixes of the computation.
- **Synchrony.** Messages should be delivered and timeouts should not expire. \NM{timeouts will expire, but messages should be delivered before they expire}

#### Value Handling

The first set of conditions for the success of a round `r` depends on its proposer:

1. The [`proposer(h, r)` function](#proposer-selection) returns a correct process `p`;

> 2. And `validRound_p` equals the maximum `lockedRound_q` among every correct process `q`. \NM{It can be also larger, so >=}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. And `validRound_p` is larger or equals the maximum `lockedRound_q` among every correct process `q`.
```

should eventually receive the POL for `v` in round `vr`, since `p` is a correct
process.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And, as we detail on the next section, when the synchrony assumptions are observed, `p` will receive such messages before it receives the new `PROPOSAL`.
```

> \NM{I think we should mention in the text here that we show the intution how condition 2 is achieved later, because

Reviewer 2: I agree. Added a sentence to the last paragraph, check if it works. :)

In other words, it should be ensured that, from `GST` on, if any correct
process executes pseudo-code line 36 for a round `r*`, then every correct
process executes the same line while still in round `r*`.
This is achieved by the means of, and it is actually the key reason for which

> Tendermint has, the `timeoutPrecommit(r*)`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tendermint has, the `timeoutPrecommit(r*)`.
```

Before moving to the next round, because the current one has not succeeded,
processes wait for a while to ensure that they have received all the `PREVOTE`
messages from that round, broadcast or received by other correct processes.
As a result, if a correct process has locked or updated its valid value in

> round `r*`,  then every correct process will at least update its valid value in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
round `r*`, then every correct process will at least update its valid value in
```

> round `r*`, because due to gossip communication property it will receive the same set of messages. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
round `r*`.
This happens because, due to [Gossip communication property](#network), every correct process receives the same set of messages within `∆`. 
```
